- Epicurus taught that being godlike means experiencing endless pleasure without disturbance by pain or death, and that any godlike beings that exist are totally natural, do not meddle in the affairs of others, and are not to be feared.
- Epicurus taught that without supernatural gods or iron laws of determinism to restrain us, we have the power to change the way we live. While there is no fate but what we make, we only live once, and we must seize the day with confidence that life is desirable, and that those who say otherwise are worse than foolish.
- Epicurus taught that when we are dead we no longer exist, and when we die our consciousness comes to an end just as does our body. This means that there is no reason to worry about reward in heaven, punishment in hell, or that anything will happen to us after we are dead.
- note: In this section we explain two important key conclusions of Epicurus: that the universe is totally natural and is neither created by nor run by supernatural beings. The second most important of Epicurus’ key conclusions follows directly from the first; since the universe is entirely natural and was not created by supernatural gods, humans do not have supernatural souls that can survive death. This means that there is neither any reward or punishment for what we do in life, so all that we will ever experience, for good or bad, must be experienced while we are alive. Given the absence of supernatural gods, the absence of fate, and the absence of life after death, it is up to us to live our lives intelligently and make the most of the time that we have.
-
- ---
- **Previous**: [[Step 3:  Begin the Study of Nature through Epicurean Canonics and Physics]]
- **Next** [[Step 5:  Identify Pleasure As Nature's Guide to Life]]