- Epicurus taught that Nature gives us only Pleasure and Pain by which to decide what to choose and what to avoid. Epicurus said that Pleasure is the beginning and the end of a happy life, and that we would not know what "Good" means without the faculty of Pleasure.
- Epicurus taught that the word Pleasure is a sweeping term that includes everything we find desirable in life, both mentally and physically, and that mental pleasures are frequently more important to us than bodily pleasures.
- Epicurus taught that by definition all pleasures are desirable and all pain is undesirable, but that we should choose actions that are painful, and avoid actions that are pleasurable, when those choices will bring us greater pleasure as a result.
- note: The third of Epicurus’ key conclusions is that since there are no supernatural gods who have established how to live, and since the only things in the universe that are eternal and unchanging are the atoms and void, it then follows that humans must look for guidance ultimately to the only faculty for choosing given by nature; Pleasure and Pain. These serve as Nature’s “stop” and “go” signals. Understanding why pleasure as the goal was revolutionary and why it was and is still misunderstood or misrepresented. The best life can be described as the continuous enjoyment of numerous and vivid pleasures of body and of mind, undisturbed either by the presence or by the prospect of pain. The worst life can be described as being crushed beneath the heaviest load of mental and bodily pain which a person can stand.
- ---
- **Next** [[Step 3:  Begin the Study of Nature through Epicurean Canonics and Physics]]
- **Previous**: [[Step 1:  Learn the Significance of Epicurean Philosophy]]
- **Home:** [[QuickStart Guide To Epicurean Philosophy]]